Slug: 10.36903/physiome.12871070
DOI: 10.36903/physiome.12871070
Title: The cardiac Na+/K+ ATPase: An updated, thermodynamically consistent model
Date: 2020-08-27
SubmissionDate: 2020-08-25
PublishDate: 2020-08-27
LastPublishDate: 2020-08-27
Curator: Anand Rampadarath
Kind: Retrospective Article
PubAuthors: Pan, M.
    Gawthrop, P. J.
    Cursons, J.
    Tran, K.
    Crampin, E. J.
PubAuthorsORCID: 0000-0002-8978-7350
    0000-0002-6029-515X
    0000-0002-5053-4540
    0000-0002-8651-3557
    ​
PMRURL: https://models.physiomeproject.org/workspace/4ce
PrimaryPaperName: The balance between inactivation and activation of the Na+-K+ pump underlies the triphasic accumulation of extracellular K+ during myocardial ischemia. 2007, Jonna R. Terkildsen, Edmund J. Crampin, and Nicolas P. Smith
PrimaryPaperURL: https://doi.org/10.1152/ajpheart.00771.2007
FulltextURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/The_cardiac_Na_K_ATPase_An_updated_thermodynamically_consistent_model/12871070
ArchiveURL: https://physiome.figshare.com/articles/journal_contribution/The_cardiac_Na_K_ATPase_An_updated_thermodynamically_consistent_model/12871070
Abstract: The Na+/K+ATPase is an essential component of cardiac electrophysiology, maintaining physiological Na+ and K+ concentrations over successive heart beats. Terkildsen et al. (2007) developed a model of the ventricular myocyte Na+/K+ ATPase to study extracellular potassium accumulation during ischaemia, demonstrating the ability to recapitulate a wide range of experimental data, but unfortunately there was no archived code associated with the original manuscript. Here we detail an updated version of the model and provide CellML and MATLAB code to ensure reproducibility and reusability. We note some errors within the original formulation which have been corrected to ensure that the model is thermodynamically consistent, and although this required some reparameterisation, the resulting model still provides a good fit to experimental measurements that demonstrate the dependence of Na+/K+ ATPase pumping rate upon membrane voltage and metabolite concentrations. To demonstrate thermodynamic consistency we also developed a bond graph version of the model. We hope that these models will be useful for community efforts to assemble a whole-cell cardiomyocyte model which facilitates the investigation of cellular energetics.
